
p17:Filter packages.->this subtitle ends with ".". ah no, now i see it, its not really a subtitle, it should be on the same line as the following paragraph, like in the next paragraphs, or?



preferences anyway? otoh in some cases layout questions are not about graphical things or so but they influence the understandability of a book. hence just the most obvious things regarding understandability, that i noticed:

1. perhaps i may suggest that you print out page 21 in the format of the final book. then read the 1st paragraph of subchapter "With Finder". do you really notice that "now" in the sentence "Type now..." is in another typeface than the rest? if i speed-read that, i cant see it and then i understand "Type now" as meaning "Now begin to type". it is not that this "now begin to type" would make much sense here, but exactly this senselessness would stop me in my reading flow.

or look more at the beginning of that page at: "For example you will get all the do: methods"
on my computer it is hardly noticable that the typeface changes for "do:". if anything changes halfway noticable, it is the "d" in "do:". and that "do:" is the last word on the line, makes it more complicated than normal to see the change because it is contrasted with another typeface only on one side.

of course all this concerns the pdf version i see, perhaps there is no problem in the book version.

2. i know that orphans are more tolerated these days than they used to be. but the one on page 20 is extreme. you read just "result.". and its on a left page, hence you have to turn the page back if you want to understand that sentence. nobody will do that, iow that sentence is completely lost. and it is ugly. the last part on page 19 should be shortened by about 6 letters so that "results." moves up one page.

3.regarding page 1: very often the first page has no page number as here. and occasionally this leads to layout changes as here. the changes here are: no page number. and the main-chapter-title, which normally is repeated at the upper right side of the left page in italics, is here repeated in the upper left side and the lower left side of the right page in normal (normal, i assume, since this is the position of the page number usually, which is written in normal).

look at the bottom part: the spacing between the footer and the last paragraph does not differ much from the spacing between paragraphs, and the typefaces and the indentation are exactly equal. it is a right page that has no left one for margin comparison purposes. hence one can get the impression that "A quick tour of Pharo" is the beginning of a new paragraph. you dont want, that the reader right at the start of his reading thinks "oh, the author cant even complete his sentences", which produces the wrong impression.

i suppose this is a bug in pillar that would be better fixed before release. obvious solutions could be to partly follow pillars standard layout procedure: no  title at the bottom, or titles at the right side of a right page, or titles in italics, or a combination. if i could choose, id say no title on the bottom and if one really wants it, the title in italics anywhere at the top. but i never used pillar,i dont know whether its a pillar bug or something else. hence i cant make a bug report on something which i never really noticed; these are just stupid assumptions.

werner 